I am about to blow your mind and make
your Instagram life so much easier
because in today's episode of build your
tribe I'm going to be walking you
through how to use AI to make 100
Instagram posts I bet there are a lot of
people listening to this episode who
haven't even posted 100 times in 20124
and so this episode is going to be super
valuable to help you create more posts
in less time why does that matter though
because essentially on Instagram the
more you post the more you grow there
are numerous studies that have proven
that as you increase your posting
frequency your growth rate also
increases so if you want to build a
brand a business or a following on
Instagram then you need to increase your
posting rate but I don't want you to
have to work any harder here at build
your tribe we do not believe in Hustle
culture in burning the midnight oil and
working into the we hours of the night
or super early in the morning we are
definitely fans of working hard but
we're not fans of hustle culture and so
I don't want you to have to work harder
I want you to work smarter to be able to
increase your output without really
having to increase your input very much
and that's why in today's episode I'm
going to share with you my five favorite
AI tools that I use for Content creation
and yes these are tools that I genuinely
use these are not paid promotions these
are not brands that I have found these
are not random AI tools that I've seen
on Tik Tok or whatever these are actual
tools that I use as a professional
content creator on a daily or a weekly
basis to help me increase my output and
work
smarter I want to say right off the bat
that not all of these tools are free
however the majority of them do have a
free component or at least a free trial
so that you can check them out for
yourself and also the tools that I'm
going to share with you today vary in
their degrees of let's call it total
content creation while some of these
tools only need a simple prompt and then
they will do the rest they will
literally create the entire post for you
some of these other tools might require
a little bit more work or input on your
end and you might just be using the AI
to kind of help you or create a script
that then you are going to go out and
film but nonetheless this is going to
help you create 100 Instagram posts in a
relatively short amount of time I think
that you could very realistically block
out an hour or two and create all 100 of
the posts that I'm about to share with
you right now and I'm going to give you
a number to keep track of as well the
first tool is going to allow us to
create 10 Reals in a super short amount
of time really the only amount of time
that this tool will take is the amount
of time that it takes you to type in
your prompt and then the amount of time
that it takes the actual tool to
generate the real but the tool is none
other than invido
nid.red reel for you the most simple use
of Nvidia AI which will create a very
simple output is if you were to put
something in like create a 15-second
video about Mars alien landing on Earth
you could give it something as simple as
that and then it will do its best to
find b-roll Clips create a voiceover
audio and make a real for you if your
goal is simply increasing your output
and increasing the amount of quantity
you are producing but you don't really
care about quality you could go that
route however with that being said I of
course would recommend creating a prompt
that is more thorough that more
completely describes what it is you're
looking for so when I use nid AI I try
to write as much text as I possibly can
prompting what I want the real to be
about and sometimes I will even take a
script for a real that I have previously
posted or that I was previously going to
post myself and I will just paste that
into the Nido AI prompt box and tell it
to create a real using this script now
my favorite way to use invid AI is to
not just have it use generic b-roll
videos or the voice of some random
narrator I prefer it to use my b-roll
videos clips that I have actually taken
of myself and I prefer it to use my
voice this is by far the coolest part
about nid Ai and maybe the coolest AI
feature that I've ever found the voice
cloning feature on Nido AI allows you to
literally like the name implies clone
your voice you essentially just upload a
clip of yourself talking for I think it
is about 30 seconds and you have to make
sure in the audio that you are saying
something along the lines of I give and
video video AI permission to use my
voice and then once you say that and you
upload it it will be able to pretty
seamlessly with pretty impressive
accuracy create a voice over saying
whatever it is that you want in your
voice now I do want to add a disclaimer
it has protection so that other people
can't use your voice only you can use
your voice and only on your projects and
so it's a super super powerful tool and
when I record that 30second example
voice over that I give to in video I
just make sure that I'm you know using
the same speaking patterns the same
tones the same enthusiasm and energy
that I do when I normally speak and then
I upload it and like I said it's
extremely impressive I'll play a clip
for you right now this is going to blow
your mind aliens from Mars have landed
in a flash of blinding light they
arrived Mars aliens descending upon
Earth with a force we never imagined
cities fell silent as their ships cast
Shadows over us their technology light
years ahead
are
defenses
useless Panic spread like wildfire
governments crumble under the pressure
as alien forces tighten their grip but
remember this Humanity has faced
impossible odds before this is our
planet and we will fight for it stay
strong stay United because this is not
the end it's just the beginning Earth
will rise again and as you can see it's
not totally perfect but it's pretty dang
perfect like 90 to maybe 95% accuracy in
terms of indistinguishable like I bet I
could send my grandma that reel and she
probably wouldn't know that it was made
with AI so in video AI I think you could
use that to easily create 10 reels in a
relatively short amount of time again
like I said really just the amount of
time that it takes you to come up with
the prompts and then the amount of time
that it takes for the technology to
actually create the Reel all right
moving on to AI tool number two this one
is I think one that's going to allow you
to create fewer posts but posts that are
really engaging nonetheless this tool is
called napkin Ai and this tool is
especially useful for those of us who
create content that has numbers or
statistics or amounts or graphs in it
and I know that's not everyone so if you
clicked on this video and you're like
well Brock I never ever have any
statistics or numbers or graphs in my
content okay well then this video is 95
post ideas using AI but essentially
napkin AI can create entire posts for
you from simple prompts or you can just
upload the data or the numbers that you
wanted to create graphics for and then
it will quickly and easily create data
visualizations which is of course a big
term but an example of how I've used
this is I found a study that showed the
average number of views for each kind of
short form video so the average number
of views for Tik Tok Instagram reels
Facebook reels and YouTube shorts all I
had to then do was put those numbers
into to napkins. pressed the little
lightning bolt number and then it
automatically created a bunch of
different Graphics that I could then use
or modify and customize to my liking I
could change the labels the colors all
that stuff and then I could export it
and either put it into canva to maybe
put it into my own sort of Graphics or I
could just post it as is the really cool
thing about this is that not all of us
are experts in data visualization and
not all of us want to take the time to
create graphs and I don't know about you
but even the graph makers in canva are
just not very great and so I like using
napkin AI to quickly and easily create
this kind of content and I should say
this kind of content data being
visualized whether it's on a map or it's
a graph or it's percentages or it's a
chart or a pie chart these sorts of
things are very engaging on social media
and they're very easy for us as content
creators to make likely there are some
sort of Statistics or some sort of
numbers that are relevant to your indust
or Niche and so I want to encourage you
to just think about if you've never done
it before think about using napkin AI
think about creating these data
visualizations because they can be
highly engaging for people people like
to look at them and study what the
numbers are saying and then argue about
how these averages don't apply to them
and their specific circumstances so I
find that posting these graphs and these
charts from time to time can be a great
way to quickly and easily engage my
audience and I have also noticed that
graphs and charts and data visualization
often times is more likely to end up on
the explore page so that's something
that you could test out adding into your
own Instagram strategy tool number three
is cap cut now many of us have used cap
cut before it is a widely regarded
favorite editing tool for social media
and of course cap cut has a million
different features cap cut uses AI to
generate captions and to highlight
specific words in your captions and
there are many great tools within capup
but one of my favorites that no one
really seems to be talking about that
uses AI pretty heavily is what they call
their smart Vlogs where essentially when
you click into cap cut you can tap on
the button that says smart Vlogs then
you can just select a bunch of videos
that you have taken over the course of a
week or even just a day then you prompt
cap cut with what you want the video to
be about describing the mood or the tone
or just the style of the video and then
it takes only a few seconds and it will
create a vlog for you based off the
clips that you have given it it will
automatically cut them it can cut them
to be very engaging and like quick
cutting it can cut them to be more
aesthetically pleasing and peaceful it's
a really really useful tool and then you
can just add some music in the
background or maybe add your own voice
over in it's a quick and easy way to
create Vlog style content for social
media so for those of you who are
keeping track we created 10 reals using
Nvidia we cre created Five using napkin
we created five more using the cap cut
smart Vlog so we're up to 20 total now
we're going to jump from 20 total to 50
total by adding 30 more reels and these
reels will be created using a very
popular tool one that you might have
heard of before called Opus clip Opus
clip is one of those AI tools that can
take long form videos and automatically
cut it into short form videos so if you
are a podcaster or a vlogger or you make
YouTube videos this is the tool for you
I would also say this is the tool for
you if you are someone who goes live I
think that's one component that people
are often times missing when they're
thinking about Opus clip they're like oh
well I'm not a podcaster I'm not a
YouTuber so I can't use it but a really
sneaky strategy that I've heard some
people doing is going live on Instagram
or Tik Tok answering questions
interacting with their audience and even
if there's only a few people on the live
just using it as an opportunity to get
some interaction and some live back and
forth then they save the video to their
device upload it to Opus clip and then
Opus clip does the Rest by automatically
editing the videos what I found is that
from a 30 to 40 minute video Opus clip
will usually pull out about 30 reels but
Opus clip has a new tool called clip
anything that like the name says can
clip anything and what's unique about
this tool is that it doesn't just take
the video as a whole like let's say the
the full podcast or the full Instagram
live and then trim down to just like a
little section what clip anything can do
is actual editing so clip anything will
create a little clip that is edited for
coherency it won't just be like a
segment of the video as a whole that is
been pulled out it will actually be
different parts of the whole video that
have been spliced together into an
engaging reel this is a tool that I
found super helpful and it's pretty
Advanced I haven't found any you know
long to short form ERS that are quite as
skilled as the clip anything tool is
within Opus clip of course if there are
any adjustments needed if you need to
trim the video if you need to change the
closed captions or the framing or
whatever you can do all that pretty
easily with an opus clip and then you
can just export it to your device often
times I find it beneficial to take the
videos that Opus clip creates and then
either add my own hooks and or my own
calls to actions onto the videos so of
course the videos that has pulled out
are engaging often times they are
coherent they could stand on their own
but I like to just make it that much
better by recording my own short little
hook adding that to the beginning of the
clip that Opus clip created and then
posting that as my final product reel
but again Opus clip can allow you to
quickly and easily create 30 posts from
one single YouTube podcast or any other
long form video so now we are on to the
fifth and final tool I've given you four
tools and we are at 50 post posts so
this final tool is going to allow us to
create 50 more posts yes but don't worry
I'm going to break them up into
different categories it's not just 50
posts as a whole and the last tool is
one that is not that exciting the last
tool is chat GPT but wait wait wait
before you click away because you're
like really is this guy just telling me
to use chat GPT yes I am but I'm going
to give you exact prompts to use and
these are the exact prompts that I use
to help chat GPT help me with content
cre
now of course these 50 prompts that I'm
about to give you are not going to be
done for you social media posts so the
remaining 50 posts will not be hey I
pressed a button and suddenly chat GPT
gave me the real instead chat GPT is
going to be giving you scripts or ideas
or a shot list that then you have to
actually go film but it alleviates the
pressure or the stress or the need to be
creative and to come up with these posts
on your own they have been created for
you and then now you just have to be the
talking head to actually go out and
create them I also want to say before I
give you these specific kinds of posts
and the prompts to go along with them
you could use the output that chat GPT
gives you the scripts that it provides
and put them into some of the tools
we've talked about earlier like in video
Ai and then essentially you are using AI
to create the entire post because chat
GPT is creating the script you're
putting the script into nid Ai and then
nid AI is creating the final product for
you so theoretically you could have ai
do pretty much all of the work if you
wanted to all right so let's get into
the actual prompts and there are actual
strategies behind each of these prompts
so the first prompt is going to allow
you to create 15 quote posts why quote
posts oh well because I just pulled out
of a hat no there's a strategy the
strategy behind quote posts is that
quote posts specifically the ones I'm
going to have chat GPT help us create
are going to be motivational or
inspirational motivational and
inspirational content is one of the most
share worthy kinds of content on social
media and shares matter because Shares
are how you get more views Shares are
how you reach more people Instagram CEO
has explicitly said that the number one
metric they care about is shares Shares
are how you grow on Instagram in 2025
and so I've actually done an entire
other YouTube video about sharew worthy
content and creating that and the five
other or I guess the four other kinds of
sharew worthy posts besides just
motivational inspirational posts so if
you want we'll link that up in the show
notes and we'll link that up somewhere
up here so you can listen to that but
like I said we're going to have chaty BT
help us create 15 motivational or
inspirational posts and here is the
prompt that I'm going to have you use
feel free to screenshot this if you're
watching on YouTube you are now the best
social media content creator on the
planet I primarily post about topic for
demographic help me come up with 15
quotes that would be highly motivational
or relatable for this audience and about
this subject the quotes can be from
famous sources or can be your own
original Creations put that into chat
GPT and you will get some great
responses of course you can add
additional context or even add more to
that prompt to get an even better output
and I should also say the more specific
you can be with the topic and or
demographic that you input for chat GPT
the better the output is going to be but
then what do you do with those quotes
don't overthink it you can literally put
them as just black text on a white
background a 5x4 ratio Instagram post
and post it you're good to go super
sharew worthy and of course it will be
relatable or motivational to your
audience and there you have it super
easy posts done for you in just a few
seconds by chat GPT so now we are up to
a total of 65 65 Instagram posts with AI
now let's take that number from 65 all
the way up to 80 by giving you 15 more
post ideas and these ones are
specifically going to be fully fleshed
out scripts for your Instagram reels
this is something that I've talked about
in previous episodes of build your tribe
but using chat GPT to write scripts or
at least write outlines for scripts is
something I do all the time and like I
mentioned earlier you can take these
scripts the chat GPT is about to give
you and put them into
nid.red create the actual final product
for you all right so here is the exact
prompt that I use I create content for
demographic about topic subtopics that I
usually cover in my content are blank
and then tell it the specific things
that you often post about if you have
any sort of tips or recommendations or
kind of buckets for your content this is
where you would list those currently I
am creating educational reels that are
between 15 and 60 seconds long please
write 15 scripts for my content each
script should begin with a 328 word hook
written at or below a fifth grade
reading level each script should end
with a call to action for my viewers to
engage with the real in the way that
they were already most likely to engage
after writing each script tell me why
that script should be engaging so let me
break down this prompt for you let's go
over it again first off the beginning
should be pretty self-explanatory I
create content for demographic about
topic that's just kind of setting the
groundwork setting the context for chat
GPT then we start getting into the
actual tips or strategy that you're
giving chat GPT where you begin by
saying the reels are between 15 and 60
seconds long now chat GPT has an idea of
how long the script should be then
you're telling it to write 15 scripts of
course that's the quantity of the output
each script should begin with a 3 to8
word hook that's not a number I just
pulled out of a hat that is
strategically how long the best hooks
are I'm going to want to pause really
quickly if you want just a general list
of hooks I will put that in the show
notes down below we have a list of the
25 most viral hooks on social media go
ahead and grab that and you can plug
that in yourself but what we found is
that generally speaking the best
performing hooks are between three and
eight words long and they are written at
or below a fifth grade reading level
basically the best hooks are short and
they are simple so we're telling that
exactly to chat GPT then we tell it to
end each script with a call to action
based off how the viewers are already
most likely to engage so chat gbt will
say hey if this is an educational reel
the most likely form of Engagement is a
save so it's going to end the script by
telling you to say save this reel if you
found it education
and then finally I added this one little
key sentence to the end of The Prompt
and that key sentence is after writing
each script tell me why that script
should be engaging asking chat GPT to
tell you why it made certain decisions
actually helps it make better decisions
and it helps you understand why certain
decisions were or were not made so I
always try to include some sort of
sentence like that in my prompts I find
super helpful but again from there you
will have 15 scripts that you can then
either record yourself do voiceovers for
or like I said pop them into invid Ai
and now you are up to 80 total posts all
from AI but all right 20 left we have 20
more posts to come up with and we're
using chat gbt these next 10 are going
to be meme posts meme posts are
extremely sharew worthy if you're going
to go watch that podcast that I did
about share worthy content you will hear
more about memes memes are a form of
relatable content and relatable content
is extremely sharew worthy in fact
relatable content might be some of the
most sharew worthy content on all of
social media here's the prompt that
you're going to give Chachi PT to help
it create memes for you you are a master
Meme creator known for your hilarious
relatability I post content for and then
tell it who your ideal audience is and
then what you are going to help that
audience do so for my example I might
say I post content for small business
owners and content creators to help them
grow and make money on Instagram I want
you to come up with the text for 10
relatable jokes or memes and include
references to the photos that you would
like me to use and then I find it
helpful to give chat PT an example so I
say for example you should respond text
colon me after spending four hours on a
post and it getting four likes image
colon Michael Jordan crying meme then
you hit enter and chat GPT will give you
10 meme ideas it will give you the text
it will tell you what image to use and
then you can go out to any meme
generator or honestly just Google images
and find the memes or the photos that it
is referencing so there we go we are now
up to 90 Instagram posts from AI our
final 10 posts also coming from chat GPT
and these are Recreations of old posts
this would not be a build your tribe
episode this would not be a Brock
Johnson if I didn't talk to you about
upcycling your old content let's be real
you've already done a lot of work you've
already made posts in the past we don't
need to constantly be Reinventing the
wheel and making new content instead we
should all be going back to the things
we have previously posted especially the
things we've previously posted that have
done well and post them again of course
you could just directly post them as is
but that wouldn't be AI helping you out
so here's what you can do you can take
that old content put it into chat GPT
and have it make a new refreshed version
with the following script below I will
post scripts for 10 of my most popular
Instagram posts please give me a
Rewritten or recreated version of each
of these ideas and tell me why each
script would be engaging and then you
can just copy and paste the
transcription of your reels if it's like
a talking head or a voiceover reel or if
you have like a really long caption you
could paste in the caption for the real
and and then have chat gbt recreate new
fresh ideas from the previous ideas that
you have already posted and that have
already proven to be effective so there
you have it five AI tools to help you
create 100 Instagram posts done for you
easily and again this shouldn't take you
a lot of time I want to leave you with
this final piece of advice don't
overthink these things social media is
ultimately about trial and error social
media is about quantity yes quality
matters I'm not telling you to post crap
but it is through quantity that we
achieve great quality said another way
it is through practice that we make
great content so I want to encourage you
to just press post I want to encourage
you to implement one of the tips one of
the Lessons Learned in this video try
out one of these AI tools and see if it
can help you create a little bit more
content in a little bit less time
working smarter not harder thank you so
much for listening today and as always
happy networking
[Music]